applications: nrf_desktop: Battery charger documentation (#1187)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/battery_charger.rst

.. _battery_charger:

Battery charger module
######################

The ``battery_charger`` module is responsible for battery charging control.

Module Events
*************

+------------------+---------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+------------------+
| Source Module    | Input Event         | This Module         | Output Event            | Sink Module      |
+==================+=====================+=====================+=========================+==================+
|                  |                     | ``battery_charger`` | ``battery_state_event`` | :ref:`led_state` |
+------------------+---------------------+                     +-------------------------+------------------+
| :ref:`usb_state` | ``usb_state_event`` |                     |                         |                  |
+------------------+---------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+------------------+

Configuration
*************

The module implemented in ``battery_charger.c`` uses the Zephyr :ref:`zephyr:gpio` driver to control and monitor battery charging. For this reason, you should set :option:`CONFIG_GPIO` option.

> Set option ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_DISCRETE`` to enable the module (by default ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_NONE`` is selected - module is disabled).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 By default, the module is disabled and the ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_NONE`` option is selected.
 Set the option ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_DISCRETE`` to enable the module.
```
Don't use en or em dashes as in Polish. They don't have exactly the same meaning.
Is this option set in CONFIG_GPIO?

Author: These are two different options:
`CONFIG_GPIO` is Zephyr option to enable GPIO
Other `CONFIG_DESKTOP...` options are our application options used to enable the module.

> Following module configuration options are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following module configuration options are available:
```

> * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PIN`` - pin to which CSO (charging status) output from charger is connected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PIN`` - pin to which the charging status output (CSO) from the charger is connected.
```

* CSO pin pull:

>   * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_NONE`` - disabled (default option)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_NONE`` - disabled (default setting)
```

Lines 29-31: what is disabled, on and off?

Author: CSO pin pull, mentioned above

  * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_UP`` - up
  * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_DOWN`` - down

> * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_ENABLE_PIN`` - pin which enables battery charging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_ENABLE_PIN`` - pin that enables the battery charging.
```

> * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_ENABLE_INVERSED`` - inverse charging enable signal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_ENABLE_INVERSED`` - option for enabling the inverse charging.
```
Is `inverse charging` clear to the reader? Would it make sense to introduce it and explain it somewhere in the document?

Author: Just signal which enables charging is inversed (charging works still in the same way), I would prefer to leave it as it is.

> * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_FREQ`` - CSO pin state switching fequency when charging error occurrs [Hz]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_FREQ`` - CSO pin state switching frequency for when a charging error occurrs (in Hz).
```

Implementation details
**********************

> The module disables battery charging when USB is suspended (required by USB specification) or disconnected.

Reviewer: What does it mean `(required by USB specification)`? That suspending USB is required by the USB spec?
```suggestion
As required by the USB specification, the module disables the battery charging when the USB is suspended. In addition, it also disables charging when the USB is disconnected.
```

Author: I meant that charging has to be disabled when USB is in suspended state (device has to reduce power consumption from USB).

> Charging is enabled when USB is powered or active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The charging is enabled when USB is powered or active.
```
You mean the module enables it? If so, can you state it clearly in the doc?

Author: Yes, module enables it. I will add this information.

.. warning:

>   Hardware configuration should enable charging by default (e.g. when pin to enable charging is not configured).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By default, charging will be enabled by the hardware configuration (for example, when the pin to enable charging is not configured).
```

Author: It was more like warning for people who are going to use their own hardware.

>   Otherwise it may be impossible to enable charging when battery is completely discharged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Otherwise, it will be impossible to enable charging when the battery is empty.
```

> The module checks battery state using :c:type:`struct k_delayed_work`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module checks the battery state using :c:type:`struct k_delayed_work`.
```

> The check is based on edge interrupt count on CSO pin in defined period of time (``ERROR_CHECK_TIMEOUT_MS``) and CSO pin state while work is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The check is based on the edge interrupt count on the CSO pin in a defined period of time (``ERROR_CHECK_TIMEOUT_MS``) and on the CSO pin state while the work structure is triggered.
```

Author: I think it should be more like work is triggered (not work structure) - I will change.

> On battery state change, new state is sent using ``battery_state_event``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a battery state change, the new state is sent using ``battery_state_event``.
```

> Battery state may have one of the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The battery state can have one of the following values:
```

> * :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_IDLE` - battery is not being charged (CSO pin set high)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_IDLE` - battery is not being charged (CSO pin set to a high value).
```
What `high` value are we talking about here?

Author: Binary signal on pin (high or low). Like e.g. 5V or 0V

> * :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_CHARGING` - battery is being charged (CSO pin set low)

Reviewer: See edit to line 51.

> * :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_ERROR` - battery charger reported an error (signal with ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_FREQ`` frequency and 50% duty cycle on CSO pin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_ERROR` - the battery charger reported an error (a signal with the ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_FREQ`` frequency and a 50% duty cycle on the CSO pin).
```
Is the parenthesis the cause of the error?

+==================+=====================+=====================+=========================+==================+
|                  |                     | ``battery_charger`` | ``battery_state_event`` | :ref:`led_state` |
+------------------+---------------------+                     +-------------------------+------------------+
| :ref:`usb_state` | ``usb_state_event`` |                     |                         |                  |
+------------------+---------------------+---------------------+-------------------------+------------------+

Configuration
*************

The module implemented in ``battery_charger.c`` uses the Zephyr :ref:`zephyr:gpio` driver to control and monitor battery charging. For this reason, you should set :option:`CONFIG_GPIO` option.

By default, the module is disabled and the ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_NONE`` option is selected.
Set the option ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_DISCRETE`` to enable the module.

The following module configuration options are available:
* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PIN`` - pin to which the charge status output (CSO) from the charger is connected.
* CSO pin pull:

> 

Reviewer: Remove blank line.

Author: I think we have to add blank lines at the beginning and at the end of bullet list. Otherwise it will simply not be displayed properly.

>   * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_NONE`` - disabled (default setting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_NONE`` - CSO pin pull disabled (default setting).
```

>   * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_UP`` - up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_UP`` - CSO pin pull up.
```

>   * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_DOWN`` - down

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_PULL_DOWN`` - CSO pin pull down.
```

* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_ENABLE_PIN`` - pin that enables the battery charging.

> * ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_ENABLE_INVERSED`` - inverse charging enable signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_ENABLE_INVERSED`` - option for signal that enables inverse charging.
```

Author: It is option used to inverse charging enable signal (negate the binary signal). It does not inverse charging.

* ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_BATTERY_CHARGER_CSO_FREQ`` - CSO pin state switching frequency for when a charging error occurrs (in Hz).

Implementation details
**********************

As required by the USB specification, in order to reduce power consumption, the module disables the battery charging when the USB is suspended. In addition, it also disables charging when the USB is disconnected.
The module enables charging when USB is powered or active.

.. warning:

>   Hardware configuration should enable charging by default (e.g. when pin to enable charging is not configured).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Make sure hardware configuration enables charging by default (for example, when the pin to enable charging is not configured).
```

  Otherwise, it will be impossible to enable charging when the battery is empty.

The module checks the battery state using :c:type:`struct k_delayed_work`.
The check is based on the edge interrupt count on the CSO pin in a defined period of time (``ERROR_CHECK_TIMEOUT_MS``) and on the CSO pin state while the work is processed.

On a battery state change, the new state is sent using ``battery_state_event``.
The battery state can have one of the following values:

> * :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_IDLE` - battery is not being charged (CSO pin set high).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_IDLE` - battery is not being charged (CSO pin set to `high`).
```

> * :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_CHARGING` - battery is being charged (CSO pin set low).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :cpp:enumerator:`BATTERY_STATE_CHARGING` - battery is being charged (CSO pin set to `low`).
```

Author: can it be logic low and logic high? I think it is more comonly used.
